---
draft: false
date: 2023-11-30
categories:
  - UX Workshops
---

# Trustworthy Assurance of Digital Health and Healthcare Workshop

The University of York, together with the Alan Turing Institute and the Centre
for Data Ethics and Innovation (CDEI) are organising a workshop as part of the
Trustworthy and Ethical Assurance for Digital Healthcare project. The purpose
of this workshop is to discuss fairness issues across the lifecycle of
data-driven systems, particularly the obstacles/challenges to achieving
fairness in AI-enabled systems used in healthcare. We are pleased to invite
you to this workshop, which will consider how data-driven technologies could
advance or hold back health equity, what fairness goals we should expect from
AI used in healthcare settings, and where discriminatory bias may arise in the
AI lifecycle. Participation at this workshop will include sharing your
expertise with other researchers and academics interested in fairness, health
equity, and data-driven digital healthcare. No specific preparation is
required to attend.

## Workshop Details

Format: Hybrid
Date: 30th November
Time: 10:30-14:30
Venue: The Institute for Safe Autonomy, University of York

## Workshop Objectives

1. To understand the current needs and obstacles identified by academic
   researchers in respect of achieving health equity from the use of
   data-driven technologies in healthcare.
2. To bring together researchers from multiple disciplines to discuss the
   question of health equity and AI.

## Workshop Agenda

| Time        | Session                                                      |
|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
| 10:30-10:35 | Hello & Welcome                                              |
| 10:35-11:20 | **Ethics Assurance, The AI Lifecycle and Fairness**          |
| 11:20-12:05 | **A Case Study Deploying a clinical diagnostic support system** |
| 12:05-12:35 | Lunch                                                        |
| 12:35-13:10 | **Session One: Design**                                      |
| 13:10-13:45 | **Session Two: Development**                                 |
| 13:45-13:55 | Coffee Break                                                 |
| 13:55-14:30 | **Session Three: Deployment**                                |
